---
title: The Resources
description: ''
position: 3
category: Economics
---


Any successful economy requires thriving production & trade to ensure resources can be efficiently used throughout the Realms economy.
The 22 different possible resources on a Realm are ERC1155 tokens - which allow for cheaper bulk transfers (e.g when purchasing something with multiple resources in a single transaction).

## Production
After settling your Realm, it will begin to produce resources for you straight away, depending on which of the [22 resources](resource-list.md) the Realm contains. 
Each resource starts off producing resources at the same rate, but the generation rate can be increased by constructing [Resource Upgrades](upgrade_path_table.md) on each (e.g building a Level 2 Dragon Hunting lodge to increase your Dragonhide production).

These upgrades will cost various resources - with rarer resources costing relatively more to construct than less rare resources such as wood and coal.
Each upgrade will cost progressively more than the previous, and will increase total production output by a lower amount.

### Happiness
Total resource production is also impacted by the Happiness statistic of the Realm. 
Initially, this will be dependant on the buildings that are constructed on the Realm, which are limited by the number of traits (Cities, Regions, Harbors & Rivers). 
Various [building types](building_cost.md) impact a Realms defence, population, food supply and army building capabilities, with trade-offs to be made for each. A Castle (requiring 1 Region to build) may increase defence and army capabilites - but needs adequate food supply (for example by building a Farm on a city), otherwise the Realm's happiness will falll and production will decrease.

## Military Spending
As realms mature and resources accure, more advanced buildings may be constructed, enhancing the realms economic and military power. These building then unlock opportunities for building [military units and weapons](military_costs.md).


## Trade
Lords and other adventurers are able to trade with each other and provide liquidity to earn fees using the Realms Merchant Trade Routes.
This allows adventurers to accumulate the various resources they will need to build upgrades and participate in the Realms ecosystem, and make returns on any excess resources. 
This will occur on an ERC1155 Automated Market Maker (AMM) pioneered by Niftyswap - that is in the process of being ported to StarkWare's Cairo language.

## Future Uses
We see a future where there are many protocols generating 1155 tokens and all these tokens are flowing between players and protocols.
Resources generated by settling Realms are just primitives, but the Lootverse is growing quickly and other loot primitives will emerge.

The interoperability and open nature of Ethereum (and Cairo) means, anybody, anywhere in the world can write contracts to consume any tokens and output something new, whether this is new games, or art. The Realms DAO will both facilate this process with other developers, as well as continue to develop new experiences internally.
